Almost everyone that has worked with JavaScript has heard of the V8 engine.
The idea of the JavaScript engine and most people know that JavaScript is a single threaded language
that it uses a callback queue.
You may also hear phrases like Javascript is an interpreted language.
Let's tackle what that means over the next couple of videos.
What is this engine that we speak of well.
If I write some code like let's say cost is happy equals to true Well we just wrote some javascript
I'm assigning the true boolean to the variable is happy.
Now how do we read this or how does the computer read this.
Imagine if somebody comes up to you and gives you a computer and they tell you hey tell this computer
to display a picture of horses on the screen and you start looking at this computer and you tell the
computer to display an image of a horse or horses in French is the computer going to understand you
know the computer would have no idea what you just said in similar fashion.
If I gave a computer with a CB you a file that is a javascript file and I tell it hey read this file
and do something for me.
Well the computer only understands ones and zeros at the end of the day.
And when we give it the javascript file it's like me talking to a computer in French and the computer
being like What.
What are you talking about.
Plus talking to a computer in French while people are going to look at you like you're a crazy person.
So the computer doesn't really know what javascript is.
So how are we able to communicate using a javascript file so that the computer displays pictures of
horses and this is the first step in our learning and that is the JavaScript engine by having a JavaScript
engine right over here.
It allows you to give this machine the javascript file.
And this machine is going to understand this file and tell the computer what to do to display pictures
of horses.
In a sense you just created a translator so you can communicate with somebody that doesn't know your
language and this special engine called the JavaScript engine understands javascript our computer finally
understands us.
Because of this javascript engine and it says I'm on it boss I'll start displaying those horse pictures.
There you go.
That's our first step.
And over the next couple of videos we're going to talk about exactly what's happening inside.
But do you think there's one JavaScript engine or many javascript engines.
Well as you can see from this wikipedia list there are eight on of engines and they're called X must
script engines and we'll get into why that is later.
But these are all the javascript engines.
Some of them you may have heard of like V8 or spider monkey or choker.
So anytime we use an engine we're able to give it a javascript file and this javascript file gets understood
by the engine and it allows this engine to communicate and tell the machine the computer to do what
we ask it to do with JavaScript.
Now these engines are written by programmers for example V8 engine is written in C++.
But why do people write these engines.
2008 marked a really pivotal moment in history when it comes to JavaScript because a V8 was released
by Google before then.
Most browsers used engines that were very basic which meant that JavaScript was a little bit slow.
You see Google had this problem.
They had something called Google Maps and Google Maps as you know requires a lot of power.
It does a lot of things you can ask for directions to zoom in and zoom out maybe even use Street View
and all the previous engines before it would make Google maps very very slow on the browser and Google
because they're a search engine.
They want everybody to use their search engine and they built a browser in order for them to control
more of the market.
So with Google Maps and their own Chrome browser they said we're going to write our own JavaScript engine
the V8 engine so that JavaScript runs way faster on the browser than it's done previously and in 2008
they released V8.
But the big takeaway for us here is that really really smart people work on these engines so that our
javascript runs as fast as possible on the browser on the server or any type of computer.
So every day javascript gets faster and faster for us because of the work that goes into these engines.
OK but what is inside this engine this magical machine that understands javascript it reads our code
and then it runs this code.
Let's get into that in the upcoming video by.